W-19526870-agent-fabric-duke (#412)
mulesoft/docs-monitoring: modules/ROOT/pages/logs-us-eu.adoc

* Searches within the logs of a specific worker (or set of workers) for a Mule app so that you can narrow scope of issues to check.
* Sharing a snapshot of important logs with developers who can work on the source of the issue.

////
Anypoint Monitoring provides logs for several types of instances, including:

TODO: VERIFY LIST and IDEALLY DEPLOYMENT TYPES (PABLO AGHEMO: CH1, CH2, Flex logs... Let me get back to you on the rest)
* Mule app and API logs
* Flex Gateway logs
* Message logs from policies applied to agent, MCP server, and LLM instances

> * Logs from agents that serve as brokers

Author: ```suggestion
TODO: VERIFY LIST and IDEALLY DEPLOYMENT TYPES (PABLO AGHEMO: CH1, CH2, Flex logs... No navigating to logs option for API instances with a Mule Gateway listed in API Manager)
* Mule app logs
* Flex Gateway logs
* Agentic asset logs:
** Message logs from policies applied to agents, MCP servers, and LLM instances
** Logs from agents that serve as brokers
```

* Searches within the logs of a specific worker (or set of workers) for a Mule app so that you can narrow scope of issues to check.
* Sharing a snapshot of important logs with developers who can work on the source of the issue.

> 

Author: Ignore commented out section from the opening //// below to the closing ///.

////

> Anypoint Monitoring provides logs for several types of instances, including:
> 
> TODO: VERIFY LIST and IDEALLY DEPLOYMENT TYPES (PABLO AGHEMO: CH1, CH2, Flex logs... No navigating to logs option for API instances with a Mule Gateway listed in API Manager)
> * Mule app logs
> * Flex Gateway logs
> * Agentic asset logs:
> ** Message logs from policies applied to agents, MCP servers, and LLM instances
> ** Logs from agents that serve as brokers
> 
> TODO: Add Visualizer to this?
> API Manager also displays Flex Gateway, message, and broker logs.

Author: @aghemo-pablo Can you help me fill out this list of assets/entities that we include logs for in Anypoint Monitoring? 

```suggestion
Anypoint Monitoring provides logs for several types of instances, including:

TODO: VERIFY LIST and IDEALLY DEPLOYMENT TYPES (PABLO AGHEMO: CH1, CH2, Flex logs... No navigating to logs option for API instances with a Mule Gateway listed in API Manager)
* Mule app logs
* Flex Gateway logs
* Agentic asset logs:
** Message logs from policies applied to agents, MCP servers, and LLM instances
** Logs from agents that serve as brokers

TODO: Add Visualizer to this?
API Manager also displays Flex Gateway, message, and broker logs.
```

}
----

[[search-agentic]]
== Get Agent, Broker, and MCP Server Logs

> API Manager and Agent Visualizer provide links to logs for individual agents, brokers, and MCP servers. To search for these logs from Anypoint Monitoring, provide the name of the instance in the search field with any filters to narrow your query.

Author: ```suggestion
API Manager and Agent Visualizer provide links to logs for individual agents, brokers, and MCP servers. To search for these logs from Anypoint Monitoring, provide the instance ID for the application or API in the search field with any filters to narrow your query.
```

> [IMPORTANT]

Author: @marianogonzalez do you see issues with the content about enabling insecure logging or whatever else here? I'll have PM look at it after I incorporate any feedback from you. Thx!

Author: thx, @marianogonzalez I incorporated your change. 😄

--

> By default, broker logs don't include reasoning data due to privacy concerns. For troubleshooting purposes, you can enable these logs when deploying the broker. 

Reviewer: `By default, broker logs include the actions taken by the broker (agents called, MCP tools executed, etc) but they don't include reasoning data due to privacy concerns.

> By default, broker logs don't include reasoning data due to privacy concerns. For troubleshooting purposes, you can enable these logs when deploying the broker. 

Author: ```suggestion
By default, broker logs include the actions the broker takes (including agents called and MCP tools executed), but they don't include reasoning data due to privacy concerns.
```

Enabling reasoning logs risks inclusion of personally identifiable information and secrets. 
--

If your organization opts to enable a broker's reasoning logs, set this property in Runtime Mananger when deploying the broker instance.

> In Runtime Manager, set the broker's category field:

Author: ```suggestion
If your organization opts to enable a broker's reasoning logs, set the broker's category field in Runtime Manager:
```

}
----

[[search-agentic]]
== Get Logs for Agentic Assets

API Manager and Agent Visualizer provide links to logs for agentic assets (agent, broker, and MCP server instances):

* In API Manager, navigate to an agentic API instance that runs on *Runtime* type Flex Gateway:
** To find Flex Gateway logs, click *Logs* from the sidebar, and then click *View logs in Anypoint Monitoring*.
** To find logs for policies applied to agents, brokers, and MCP servers, click *Message Logs* from the sidebar, and then click *View logs in Anypoint Monitoring*.
** For a broker's reasoning logs, click *Message Logs* from the sidebar, and then click the button dedicated to the broker. These logs come from the broker application.

> * In Agent Visualizer, click a node in the visual graph, and navigate to logs. For guidance, see xref:agent-visualizer.adoc#access-logs[Access Logs] in the Agent Visualizer documentation.

Author: ```suggestion
* In Agent Visualizer, click a node in the visual graph, and navigate to logs. For guidance, see xref:agent-visualizer::troubleshoot-agent-network:adoc#access-logs[Access Logs] in the Agent Visualizer documentation.
```

== Get Logs for Agentic Assets

API Manager and Agent Visualizer provide links to logs for agentic assets (agent, broker, and MCP server instances):

* In API Manager, navigate to *Agent and Tool Instances*, and click an instance:
// REMOVED:
//** To find Flex Gateway logs, click *Logs* from the sidebar, and then click *View logs in Anypoint Monitoring*.
** To find logs for policies applied to agents, brokers, and MCP servers, click *Message Log* from the sidebar, and then click *View logs in Anypoint Monitoring*.
** For a broker's reasoning logs, click *Message Log* from the sidebar, and then click the button dedicated to the broker. These logs come from the broker application.
* In Agent Visualizer, click a node in the visual graph, and navigate to logs. For guidance, see xref:agent-visualizer::troubleshoot-agent-network:adoc#access-logs[Access Logs] in the Agent Visualizer documentation.
+
For more information about Agent Visualizer, see xref:agent-visualizer::index.adoc[].

[IMPORTANT]
--
By default, broker logs include the actions the broker takes (including agents called and MCP tools executed), but they don't include reasoning data due to privacy concerns.

> Enabling reasoning logs risks inclusion of personally identifiable information and secrets. 

Reviewer 2: I had to read this twice - I think I stumbled on "risks"

Author: tbd
